---
layout: null
title:  "Developer update #2 (11-03-2022)"
---

Hey everyone,

It's been a few months since our last update, but we've been busy, and we have a lot to show you. Before we do so, though, we want to clarify some points of order.

Firstly, we have decided to release Fallout Together after Skyrim Together Reborn. The plan was originally to develop them at the same time and release them on the same date, but due to the small size of our team, this is proving to be more challenging than we thought. Therefore, we will finish Skyrim Together Reborn first, and release Fallout Together after that. Currently, Fallout Together is not too far behind Skyrim Together Reborn, but it does still need some work.

Secondly, we are happy to announce that most of our major planned core gameplay features are in! This means that we will be spending our time polishing the mod, fixing bugs, fixing crashes, tweaking gameplay elements where necessary, and building the launcher and in-game UI. With that, we are officially in the last phase of development before we can release 1.0. As always, keep in mind that this does not mean that we have an estimated release date in mind.

Lastly, we would like to officially welcome Dragonisser to the dev team! Dragonisser is a long time moderator for the mod, and has done some UI work for reborn in the past. She will be building the front end of the UI.

Now, onto the progress update itself.

### Stability

Since most of our core features are done, our internal testing team has been hard at work testing the mods for bugs and crashes, and we have been fixing them accordingly. We are happy to report that this process is going well, and that stability is rapidly improving.

### Magic effects

Last update, we mentioned that we had synchronized magic effects. After testing the system, we noticed that it had some problems, and certain effects didn't sync. We have made some major improvements in that regard. Most magic effects are now synchronized between players. One examples are the Slow Time shout. Healing other players through spells also works now.

<div style='margin-bottom:2rem; position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(56.25% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/WhiteLateAmericansaddlebred?autoplay=0&hd=1' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

<div style='margin-bottom:2rem; position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(56.25% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/ThatAdorableAmurstarfish?autoplay=0&hd=1' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

### Unpaused menus

Menus are now unpaused natively in the mod. Whenever you open a chest, open your quest journal, open your magic selection menu, the game will not be paused anymore, akin to the Skyrim Souls mod.

<div style='margin-bottom:2rem; position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(56.25% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/BlondOddIrishwaterspaniel?autoplay=0&hd=1' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

### New inventory system

We have completely revamped our old inventory system. With this new system, the server will have a lot more control over individual players' inventories, what enchantments they have, whether they are upgraded, etc.

### ES parser

This is a more technical issue, but this might be exciting for modders. We have developed an in house esm/esp/esl parser that can load core and mod files onto the server. We plan to add a server-side scripting API in a post release feature update. The game records can be exposed to the API, and the sky will be the limit on what modders can do with that.

Thank you for your continued interest in our mod, we are excited about what comes next :)

Best,<br>
Robbe (cosideci).

