---
layout: null
title:  "Developer update #5 (20-05-2024)"
---

## Update 1.6.5

---

Hey everyone, (if you just care about the 1.6 update, scroll down to the Patch notes (next message))

First, Skyrim Together Reborn update 1.6 is finally here, and with that, the final update! It's been over a year since I released 1.4, so this update is quite meaty. If you haven't tried the mod in a long time or only tried it on release, I'd <b>highly recommend</b> trying the 1.6 update. You might like it!

This version is about as good as it gets for a mod where you try shoving co-op multiplayer in an open world game like this. It's a near impossible task, so the fact that it's playable at all is a small miracle. No, it's still not perfect. It'll have silly bugs, it might still occasionally crash (though crashes are <b>very rare</b> nowadays), and it won't be AAA quality. This is unreasonable to expect from a handful of devs making something like this in their free time anyway. But it is fun, and that's the most important part to us. As a reminder, <b>follow the playguide</b> (check ⁠faq ), and do <b>NOT</b> use mods for the best experience (including the included Creation Club content).

On to the second part of this announcement: let's talk <b>Fallout Together</b>. On release of Skyrim Together Reborn, I mentioned that I was willing to continue development on the Fallout 4 multiplayer mod that we had been developing for a few years prior. My only condition was that I was not willing to do this project by myself, as it is too much work. The rest of the team did not want to continue development on the mod, so we open-sourced it in the hopes that new developers would come along and help work on the core of the mod. Unfortunately, that never happened, and thus, Fallout Together was never finished.

It personally saddens me that Fallout Together will likely never see the light of day, especially with how great the Fallout show has been, which has generated a lot of new interest in both the games and our mod over these past few weeks. Unfortunately, the community has spoken. No new contributors means no mod. <b>My initial offer still stands, however: if there are new contributors who would like to take on the challenge of finishing Fallout Together, I'd be more than happy to continue development on it</b>. Given how difficult, time consuming and financially unrewarding projects like these are, it is unlikely that new core developers will join in the future.

That said, Fallout 76 isn't half bad these days from what I hear, and a Fallout 4 multiplayer mod will most likely never be as smooth or as good as Fallout 76, so I'd personally recommend just playing that instead. There's even an ongoing project to develop private servers for Fallout 76 called Server 76. A project like that is much more promising than trying to jam co-op into a singleplayer game.

And with that, that means that this is pretty much it for me for the foreseeable future on this team. The rest of the team has other projects which they are working on, but I am not actively involved in those projects. The team will announce those projects when they are ready.

Lastly, a few thank you's are in order! Thank you to everyone that downloaded, supported and played our mod! Having other people enjoy something you made out of passion is truly a dream come true for us! A huge shoutout to the <b>Moderator</b> and <b>Community Helper</b> for helping people set up and troubleshoot the mod! Thank you to <b>Contributor</b> for fixing bugs, improving the UI, and adding features post-release when we went open source! And finally, a special thanks to <b>@Dragonisser</b>, <b>@yamashi</b>, and <b>@VinceM (Force)</b> for being so patient with me when I joined this project as a newbie 4 years ago 🙂

See y'all when TES6 releases!
Greetings, Cosideci.

## Patch notes

### Overhauled combat targeting system

Enemies should target the entire party more evenly now. In the past, the party leader was often the only one getting targeted. This should be fixed now (or at least a lot better).

### Calendar sync and time progression
For technical reasons, we disabled calendar progression a few years ago. This meant that the date would always be stuck at the 0th day of the 0th month of the 0th year. Dates will now actually progress, since we properly worked out the underlying technical issues.

This has some rather big implications. For example, dragons would not randomly spawn every few days, because the days would not progress. This should be fixed now, so you should see dragons spawn randomly in the world from now on.

### "Reveal other players" button
You can press "F4" to toggle the "reveal other players" feature. This marks other players with a green, magical effect, which allows you to see your friends through the walls. Pressing F4 again toggles this feature off (though it takes a couple of seconds for the effect to fully disappear). We did not implement a "player map marker" as there were too many technical hurdles, so this feature is a rough (and imo better) replacement for that. On top of that, we also sync those blue waypoints you can place on the map within a party now!

### Fix naked NPCs bug
Worth mentioning as its own entry, given that this has been such a persistent bug. But yes, no more random naked people walking the streets of Whiterun

### ESL mod syncing
There was a bug that made ESL mods not sync. This bug has been fixed. You can now use ESL mods properly. This includes the Anniversary Edition upgrade. In the past, you had to convert ESL mods to ESP mods to make them work. This is no longer necessary. We still do NOT recommend using mods or Anniversary Edition or other Creation Club content, but if you do want to take the risk, they should actually work now, and would decrease crashes when using them.

## Full patch notes
* Overhauled combat targeting system
* Fix naked NPCs bug
* ESL mod syncing (Anniversary Edition support)
* Calendar sync and time progression
* Fixed crashes related to dragons
* Fixed wrong damage calculations
* Waypoint sync (blue markers on map)
* Fixed book reading bug
* Fixed SetTime command crash
* Fixed nightvision effect syncing
* Fixed rare memory leak
* Fixed quest start code (partially)
* Fix invisible weapons and spells
* "Reveal other players" button (F4)
* The cloak destruction spells now sync up visually
* Auto party join
* Support Cyrillic text in the ImGui debug menu
* Easier installation (force SkyrimSE.exe name during selection)
* Warn about mods and uGridsToLoad
* Turkish, Korean and Japanese translations for the UI
