---
layout: null
title:  "Developer update #6 (28-05-2024)"
---

## Update 1.6.7

Hey everyone,

So the 1.6.5 update had some issues (apparently that can happen if you wait a year and a half to release an update, who would have thought), so I spent last week fixing those. The latest version, 1.6.7, should be up now. The 1.6.5 version had some major problems with calendar progression, making days progress at 24 times the speed, which meant that dragons spawned a little too often (roughly every time you fast traveled), along with a bunch of other issues. These issues are fixed now.

While I had some time left waiting for the update to be approved by Nexus, I made some other improvements as well. This'll be the <b>final final update</b> for me for a while then, sorry for the inconvenience, hope you enjoy!

Best,<br>
Cosideci.

## Patch notes

### Beast form overhaul (Vampire Lord and werewolves)
Vampire Lord and werewolf sync were technically implemented since the 1.0 release of Reborn, but it never really worked all that well. The 1.6 update broke beast form sync even further (naked Vampire Lord, animation desync, beast form disappearing when traveling through doors). <br><br>
I overhauled the beast form sync code, and it should be fully playable now! As a side note, there's one bug left with Vampire Lord, where if you spam the walk forward button as your player is transforming, the animation might be desynced. Simply wait for the animation to properly finish before walking and you'll have no issues!

## Full patch notes
* Calendar progression sync fixed (no more infinite dragons, vampire transforming too fast, or any other time related bugs)
* Beast form overhaul (Vampire Lord and werewolves)
* Fixed a situational bug where spells would sometimes do double the damage
* Added a special menu in case you missed the ridiculous number of dragons from the borked 1.6.5 update (press F3 to open the debug menu, click on "Debuggers") ;)

